---
layout: post
title: Carma
# description: Feugiat amet 
image: assets/images/carma.png
released: 03/06/2021
storefront: Steam
storeurl: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1603990/Carma/
roles: Producer & Team Lead
---

Out drive your friends in fast, arcade-style vehicle combat, using power-ups, killstreaks, and the environment to smash your foes! Battle across a miniature world, avoiding dangers and earning the gods favour to level up and unlock a wide range of customisables to help you stand out from the crowd. 

<!-- <div class="video-container">
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_TyJeKKQh-s?controls=0" frameborder="0"
        allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div> -->

<div class="container">
    <iframe class="video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dADEpq_RglU" title="YouTube video player"
        frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
        allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


<!-- <div class="video-contatiner">
    <iframe style="width: auto;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dADEpq_RglU" title="YouTube video player"
        frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
        allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div> -->

<b><i>Hi, the section below is currently being written, so expect sentences that seem like notes, spelling mistakes, and general ramblings as I get my thoughts down.</b></i>

Project was a challenge, but also a joy to work on <br>
Second multiplayer project, with a lot of the same team that worked on <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/2020/01/01/Yvaga.html">Yvaga Station</a>. <br>
Use of <b>Trello</b> for task tracking, <b>Git</b> for version control, and <b>Google Docs</b> for documentation

Purely a producer for this project, rather than acting as both a programmer and producer during the development of <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/2020/01/01/Yvaga.html">Yvaga Station</a>. This extra time has allowed me to place a greater emphasis on long term planning for the project - ensuring that each sprint is building towards a specific end product, rather than just taking each week as it comes. This has helped to significantly reduce feature creep and avoid crunch, a problem which our previous project suffered from.

also allowed me to spend extra time focusing on ensuring the team is prioritising their mental health, and that the project is flexible enough to allow for this kind of prioritisation, which was especially important as had first lockdown due to corona early in development. this has been done in part through constant maintenance of scope, which has also given a clearer vision of the end product, in turn helping to provide more focused sprint.

To help with project flexibility and completion of tasks, I worked to encourage team members to not be precious over their work. For example, when it comes to texturing models artists are encouraged to texture models that have the highest priority, regardless of whether they were the one who modelled it. The combination of these methods have kept the project on a consistent path long term while still remaining flexible short term. This has allowing team members to balance the project with their personal work and health without significantly compromising the final product.

Strived for a open environment to allow good communication with in the team, environment where every member of the team felt empowered and that they had a voice, often explicitly asking for members input and opinions if they had been quite during a discussion. Although I hadn't learnt the name for it, we were striving for "creative equity", with every member of the team having a voice, but opinions of those with relevant skills and expertise in the current discussion having more weight. This allows everyone to contribute and have a sense of ownership of the work, while helping to avoid the pitfalls of "design by committee" style, where what you can end up with is just bland and average.

Expanded on our use of leads for each department, which had come up organically within the team on our previous project. This helped to give me the time to focus on macro problems, looking ahead for blockers and planning our roadmap, rather than getting bogged down in micro details that were best left to the team. This as well helped with the team's sense of ownership, allowing those that thrived with minimal micromanagement to perform their best, while still providing support and points of contact for those that needed it.

Due to difficulties in previous projects, this was my first project working properly with artists, having previously relied heavily on asset packs. This was another
reason why I wanted a reliable art lead; they could act as a point of reference
for me, as well as a vocal advocate for how certain processes, ideas, and pipelines
would affect artists. While this has certainly been a huge boon, there have been
a couple of issues that have caused frustration or work needing to be redone.
One of these was how best to integrate the production of concept art into our
pipelines. While we knew that having concepts produced early would be best,
we had no formal method of reviewing these concepts. This meant that while in-
formal feedback was given to submitted concept sheets, these sheets were green
lit without sufficient time spent reviewing them. This meant that we had a
couple of occasions where an asset had been modelled before issues with it were
raised. This cost us more time than if issues had been raised at concept stage,
as well as frustration from the artists for needing to redo large portions of an
asset, or in one case scrap an asset completely. 
This has been improved significantly in future projects, with submission of concept art being much more vocal, and a larger emphasis and importance being placed upon providing feedback. artists also feeling empowered and encouraged to chase feedback or clarification if it's needed, which has helped a lot. With more of a focus on providing this feedback the amount of time artists spend sat waiting for feedback has decreased significantly.

<!-- 
Pitched game to academics in the style of an investor pitch
Bringing on artists half way through a project
Provided valuable and meaningful feedback to all members of the team, both informally throughout the project and formally every fortnight as part of academic submission
Set up and run steam beta tests
Build & stable branch management
IP/ Share agreement
Storefront set up, configuration, and research
busisness and market research
Set up a company to publish games through
Ran a team of 13
Budget mock up
tracked dev hours to help with budget mock up and scoping (students so not working standard number of hours each week)
Handled steam release
handled academic requirements and submission for the team

Talk about how boards were structured and maintained
Post mortem
Images of boards and charts 
-->