---
layout: post
title: MA Game Art Module Reflection
# description: Feugiat amet 
# image: assets/images/yvaga.png
# video: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Lf0t6xAkz-s
released: 28/08/2022
# storefront: itch.io
# storeurl: https://dayluke.itch.io/yvaga-station
roles: Environment Artist
---

lead concepting discussions, with a mind for scope and team composition. There were several major concerns at the beginning of the project as the game jam was only 3 weeks, it was a development team that hadn't worked together before, and a majority of developers were new to game development. 
Given that a majority of games, even smaller indie titles, are produced over several years not weeks (Dana 2022) it was clear that we would need to design a concept that was very focused, both mechanically and environmentally. This was especially true as the team had not worked together before, so would be progressing through 4 stages of team work (Tuckman, B.W., 1965, p.384) so wouldn't be as productive as it would be possible for us to be if we were already familiar with working together. Working with developers new to game development meant they were unaware of industry standard 3D pipelines (Intel 2018), so it was important to introduce them to these before commencing work as they are beneficial in several ways, such as <EXPLAIN WHY 3D PIPELINES GOOD><REFERENCE BENEFITS OF 3D PIPELINE>.

these three fed into primary concern driver ideation, which was scope <REFERENCE WHAT IS SCOPE>. overscoping can cause <REFERENCES DOWNSIDES OF OVERSCOPING>. We explored several ideas for managing scope, such as designing a lot of modularity and reusablility into our environments and mechanics <REFERENCE MODULARITY>. We began ideation with a session of brainstorming, which served the dual purpose of acting as a team building exercise (Chandler, H.M., 2009, p. 221), allowing us to explore all ideas without commiting to something that was out of scope.


References
Chandler, H.M., 2009, p. 221. The game production handbook. Jones & Bartlett Publishers.
Tuckman, B.W., 1965, p.384. Developmental sequence in small groups. Psychological bulletin, 63(6).
Dana (n.d.). How Long Does It Take To Develop a Video Game? [online] Available at: https://geekygamingstuff.com/how-long-does-it-take-to-develop-video-games/.
Intel. (2018). Step Up Your 3D Asset Pipeline. [online] Available at: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/step-up-your-3d-asset-pipeline.html [Accessed 5 Oct. 2022].